Welcome back everyone.
We've done a lot of discussion on supervised learning methods as well as evaluating the performance
of supervised learning such as regression tasks or classification tasks.
Now let's go ahead and finally discuss unsupervised learning So recall that when we're dealing with
supervised learning the actual label was known due to historical labeled data for example with those
images of dogs and cats.
We actually had historical information where someone manually went in and labeled images as dogs and
cats and then upon model deployment we could see a new image and predict if it's a dog or a cat.
But what actually happens when we don't have historical labels for example we just have all those images
but no one's gone ahead and actually labeled them dogs versus cats.
We just have the RAW image files or we just have raw data in general that doesn't have any sort of label.
This is unsupervised learning.
And there are certain tasks that fall under the umbrella of supervised learning.
There's tasks like clustering anomaly detection and dimensionality reduction.
Let's talk about these individually clustering isn't we're trying to group together unlabeled data points
into categories or clusters and data points are assigned to a cluster based on their similarity to other
points within that cluster.
So if we only had those images well we could attempt to do is cluster them together into two groups
and then we could end up saying hey we have a cluster here that's similar to each other and another
cluster it's similar to each other.
But keep in mind since this is Unsupervised data we technically could end up with an approach that doesn't
actually correspond with the labels we had in our minds beforehand.
For example if we specified we wanted to cluster together these images into two main clusters we could
accidentally end up clustering large dogs and large cats in one image cluster and then small dogs and
small cats and another image cluster.
So what's going to happen is your machinery model is going to attempt to cluster together based off
similarity and you're not always guaranteed a correct result because remember you didn't have the label
to begin with.
So there's technically kind of no right answer which makes actually evaluating these models performance
a lot more nuanced now than there's also anomaly detection which attempts to detect outliers in a data
set for example fraudulent transactions on a credit card would be anomalies and we would like to detect
those and technically often you're not going to have historical labels of fraudulent transactions because
they're so rare to occur.
So really what we're looking for here are points that are really dissimilar from everything else in
the dataset and that also falls often under Unsupervised Learning because you don't have the historical
label of fraudulent transactions.
And then there's also a dimensionality reduction.
And I mentioned earlier reduction are data processing techniques that reduce the number of features
in the dataset either for the purposes of compression or to just better understand underlying trends
within the dataset so an unsupervised learning.
The most important thing to note here is that these are situations where we do not know and do not have
a correct answer for this historical data.
We don't have that label which means evaluation is much harder and more nuanced because there's technically
no correct answer it's actually compare to.
So you're not going to get things like accuracy precision or root mean square error because technically
there's no correct answer to actually compare this to if you had that label to begin with then you would
have just done supervised learning.
So that's what makes unsupervised learning not necessarily harder but just the evaluation of it is a
lot harder.
And keep in mind for an unsupervised process we no longer have that test train split since we don't
have that right answer to compare with on the test data.
So we end up just acquiring the data cleaning the data and then we're going to train or fit our model
on all the data and then afterwards perform some sort of transformation on that data set such as that
dimensionality reduction and then once we do that we can deploy the model but again we don't have that
correct answer to compare to.
So we're not really able to do any sort of comparison to a test set when it comes to an unsupervised
learning process now later on in this course we're gonna explore unsupervised learning processes with
specialized neural network structures such as auto encoders but for the first major chunk of the course
we're really going to focus on supervised learning and then later on we'll come back to unsupervised
learning.
All right.
Thanks.
And I'll see you at the next lecture.